Hello inglorious God.
People in this video were going to learn about the animation tree play a..
Which is a really cool noad when we're working with 3-d.
We're going to do is I the play a character.
When the player moves ivie's P.S. further character on screen player is the person pressing the buttons.
But we want the player character to move smoothly from one animation to another.
And I'll show you what I mean.
So let's say I take this script and I'm going to open up the play a scene and access this animation.
So we've got this animation here like run right.
So I could call run in scripts he's running he's running he's running and a stop on it.
And I'm going to call this one.
Now you run again.
This is very fractured.
Right it's not a smooth animation Let's say I am working now now I am running.
What we want is a way of blending these animations.
And for this we're going to use a new type of note and that note it's going to be an animation trio
play and actually three players are rather different.
First off they are graphics space right it's a visual note.
And what we want is our final animation to come out of the output.
First we need to make sure we've set this up properly.
Okay so the first thing to do is not put this in this scene.
I need it to put it in the actual armature scene.
Let's make sure that the animation player is in there the base scene so any changes we make were going
to bring the animation tree player with us.
So new animation to play.
Okay.
To set this up correctly we need to look over here.
So we have the master player and the bass path first thing I need to do is point it to an animation
play.
It's going to access all of the animations and the animation player.
So let's do that.
Click on here and do a sign and just click on the animation player.
The next thing we need to do is make sure that the base path is the same as that in the animation player.
So the Amish play has a root node which is the armature right the skeleton.
And I know this because dot dot means go up one level it's the parent that animation tree player has
to have the same parent.
Right so the base path here has to be the same as the root node in animation player.
And here's why animation tree player is going to access the bones the same way that animation player
does.
So when it starts running these animations and blended together it has to have the same path.
If they're pointing different places it won't know what to do.
Currently these are set to be the same place so that's great.
Okay.
So have these as well the first thing to do is will add in animation and I can rename this animation.
I can rename this silts renamed this idle animation I'll add in.
Right.
And it should have access to all of the animations already in the animation player.
It's a little confusing talk about animation treat players and animation players but hopefully you can
get your head round it belt at night.
OK so this is my idol animation and I want to bring in a second animation and it's going to be my running
animation for now which can put these two together later are going to make this a lot more complicated.
Let's do run an.
And azman Expect going to load in my run animation.
OK.
So we have two animations and currently nothing is happening.
What we need is to go to the output.
So let's say I move run to the output.
OK.
Nothing is happening may get active.
The animation tree player is now active and whatever's on the output is going to be working and it's
going to override anything that's here if I pretend deaf the deaf animation is running.
But you don't see it.
If you want to see it you need to deactivate the active animation.
Go stop that and make this running an OK.
Well right now we don't actually have a blended animation what we have is an animation that overrides
animation play.
We need a way of switching between these two.
For that we've got these various blends options.
Let's actually stop him running for now.
These weren't options we have a blend to blend three and a blend four.
And I've linked you to the official documentation.
So one of the resources here is the got o documentation website where you can read about how these work.
But I'm going to run you through them very quickly.
Let's start with the blend to what you're going to do is when I have two animations and we can move
a slider between 0 and 1 and wherever we are on that on that scale zero point zero ones are a point
five point seventy five whatever you like is going to blend between animation a an animation B blend
three is a little different.
Negative One is animation B minus or minus be an image.
Point zero slider is animation A and plus one is animation B plus.
Now the reason these are called B minus and B Plus is a blend three will not allow you to blend B minus
and B plus together get up where she the note in a moment you'll see that a blend four is like to blend
twos added together.
So we have an eight and a b and a 1 and a B one.
They will blend together based on how they blend individually.
Let me show you what that looks like.
Let's say I can get run an idol here.
I'm going to put them over the output make this active again so here we have it nice.
I like the mission.
I also have a slider and as I move the slide it up.
You see the animation automatically Blands.
If we wanted to we could also filter out specific boland's So if you wanted an animation to bland and
just use the head or not include the feet or whatever it was you could do that.
So this allows us to blend two animations and obviously we control the slider in code right so that's
very useful as you might expect we have these other animations here.
We're going to make a more complicated state later in the section but this is the basics.
Now let's say we have a third animation.
So let's bring in a punch and we need a blend three.
I can blend in Idol run and punch and bring That's the output you'll see at point zero it's playing.
I can blend this.
So we're blending halfway roughly between idle and run or halfway between run and punch.
So you need to use a little bit of forward planning here which animations can go together.
Can I run and punch.
Can I idle and run.
Can I idle and punch can I.
I'll run and punch whatever are a blend for.
Let's bring in another animation.
How do you feel about working great.
Put you here.
Let's put these all together one that is drag that bit.
There we go.
So you're a zero.
You are v0 you are a one and you are be1 and it will connect you to the output.
OK so what it's doing is it's got two separate blends.
So the run an idler blended together.
But look what's happening here.
Right.
It's running working and run.
And it doesn't want to be doing that.
So let's blend that out.
And here is I don't even know what's happening here.
Punch is not running and it's is a little bit less blending four together like this can be very tricky.
I disconnect that for now.
I'm just going to run.
This blend to some to remove everything and not using when a right click on the top though.
And that's the answer I give to them and connect you back to the app.
You should calm down the an excellent.
And I can give myself a bit more space.
I was going to rename this blend too I need a better name for this up not remove.
I'm going to rename it to a and b come back again and let's rename you to move.
Put your knee up at.
So we now have something we can we can access in code.
Now you know there's a few other things here.
Time scale is very useful for any to speed up or slow down animation.
Transition time seek I'll be honest I haven't play with them a lot.
Mix allows you to just have a standard mix but what we have here is pretty good for what we need.
So let's save that for now and we go back in here.
And you should see that the animation tree player is now part of the ambitious.
Great save that Alright look.
His animation has changed and I want him to move him.
He's now facing entirely the wrong direction so I will fix that soon.
He's not actually animating right.
What we've got is override everything with default so we need to control this in code so let's do that
when we stop that.
Let's make this nice and big.
We need a few more variables.
In fact we need some constants.
Let's make this a little easier.
I'm going to split up my variables.
I'm a call these movement variables.
And over here I'll have a section for animation constants.
We don't know what the going to be yet but we have a section for well I do know is that as well as moving
and facing forward I need to animate.
OK so let's make a function called element.
And again the substance room.
There we go to cook function.
And me it's very me.
The very first thing we should do is grab that armature right we need to grab the animation there so
let's save a variable animator and I only need to exist in this section in this function verrill variable
animate.
What is that.
That is an animation tree player.
There it is.
So now I agree you she's a word limit.
I get the first thing I need to know is are we moving.
Okay so the when to do that is a take this motion value which we are going to have to change later but
for now take set the motion value.
There was a motion and I don't want just the value I want.
I am moving so is the length of the motion that's going to tell me how much moving if that's greater
than some kind of blend M. so let's call this bland minimum.
That's going be a first constant this wants to be a small number.
So let's put you up here and say constant blend minimum equals zero point 1 2 5 a pulling up here so
can change it but it shouldn't change once we're running like this doesn't change a runtime set.
Now code.
If that's running I want to do something get in a moment.
I'm going to get you to fill this section out.
But before we do let's look at the node we need to be using.
Let's look at the function that's the word of the function.
It's part of the animation tree place the call ammit Dot blend to set amount lent to set amount.
OK.
So we need some way of moving the slider and this will allow us to change the slider if we open the
documentation for it.
You can see right here where it takes it takes an IED.
That's the name of the node and a value.
The value is going to be between 0 and 1.
So I have a slightly more difficult challenge than normal for you.
Let's see how comfortable you are with this.
If this is a little bit tricky or you get a little bit lost Don't worry give it a go.
I would like you to use blend to know a set amount to have the information blend from idle to running
when the player moves and back again when they stop.
So what we're looking at is a way of increasing from zero which is idle to 1 when we're moving and then
decreasing from 1 to zero.
And this can be decreasing over time.
We want to change over time.
So pause the video give that a shot and when you're either happy with your results or you're a little
frustrated you don't really want to do this anymore.
Come back and I'll show you my solution.
And welcome back.
So let's start with how blend to set about works and if can start timing here.
And I know that my animation tree player has this.
This is the No what move.
So that's a strength so we can bring that in as a string move.
Double check that I've capitalized that correctly because you know me in writing.
Yes I have.
And when he'd float blend.
OK.
So how much blending by.
Well I need a new variable someone to call this.
Or shall we call it let's call it move the ball end that way.
And that's going to go right up here.
So it's not animation.
Constance animation variable animation variables.
We call this like that and we need to start.
This is a basic value.
This is a dumb name isn't it.
Doesn't tell me what it is as you move state.
So animation variables you now move state let's comment out that it's this comment in what that is.
So move State zero is bydel one is run and let's change it here so move state is going to be what we
actually change.
OK.
So we need to change this over time.
So if we're moving this has to go up so move state plus equals and I need some sort of run blend about
sollis do run a blend amount.
And you know what that should be a constant because this won't change runtime run blend.
Matt Boop.
I'm right back at the beginning.
He's a troll at home to jump up.
See constant rumbling when Mt..
Let's have this very small point one and we're doing another one called bidle blend about so in all
land amount maybe we're going to slow down same speed we speed up but just in case that's have the option.
So if that's the case then increase this value by that amount.
OK.
So what if it isn't so else move State minus equals idle blunder about.
Now what I do need to do is clamp move state right.
And the reason is even if the slider can't go above zero can't go below zero and above one it can certainly
go above zero.
If I keep moving this value this amount is going to go higher and higher and higher.
So a move they could end up being 150.
And then I'm going to have to wait for it to go to zero.
So it's gonna take ages to stop moving.
So instead of doing that it's clampett.
So move state to state he calls a clamp.
And we've used this before right so we.
Why do we climb from having to move state.
What's our minimums evaluable can never go below zero.
We can never go above one.
And that should work fine so let's find out if I'd done it right.
It does.
Now I am facing the wrong way now.
A couple ways I could do this but I could do this in code and I could say okay so if you're going forward
then go back then look backwards all the rest of you know that might be the easiest way of doing it.
Let's just do that so I'm going to switch out of that and that and switch out left and right and come
back.
So I'll just switch the valleys around.
So now at Pressplay.
Fantastic.
Let's make it even easier for ourselves.
Let's put the camera as a child of play for the moment and I press play.
And look at that slows down now let's make the Idol even slower so we can see this working let's make
I'd went about 0.01.
So he's going to start running.
And then slowly come to rest.
Isn't that wonderful.
You can do all kinds of fun changes for that so I'm going to put this back to what's a good amount.
There zero point five four that feels good to do.
Yes.
That feels a lot more natural and his desk is way too big.
But I can fix that when we start putting furniture in because I feel like that's a really good place
to stop for now.
Which brings us to the end of the video.
In this video we've introduced ourselves to animation play or possibly introduce it to us.
We've learned how to blend animations which is really useful and you can go quite in-depth.
We will be going more in depth later on in the section.
But I think that's a really good start.
So how did you get on was the challenge you difficult.
Have you found funny other ways you can use an emotion player.
How are you doing with the section so far.
Love to hear feedback.
Meanwhile excellent work and I'll see you in the next video.